>> Evgenii Ray: So
let's move on to virtualization.
So, the virtualization is UI optimization
technique that involves maintaining
the data in virtual memory while rendering
only a limited subset of the data.
And the purpose of this pattern is
to minimize the number of elements
in the DOM, and
reduce the number of mutations, and
reduce the CPU and
the memory usage in general.
Because the larger the DOM
tree we have on the page,
the harder it is to maintain it for the
browser and the more resources we utilize.
So let's overview the concept
first on the high-level.
So when we set up the virtualization,
usually it's
organized in a way that you have
the top observer and a bottom observer.
So the top observer responsible for
handling the case when you scroll up and
the bottom observer when you scroll down,
and also you have a viewport.
When the viewport touches
the bottom observer,
then we trigger the callback that
loads the next page of the data.
So once the first page of the data is
rendered, so this is item 1 and item 2,
and as you can guess,
the page size that we use here is 2.
Then we need to scroll down the viewport
again to trigger it one more time,
and then we render the item 3 and item 4.
But the main difference
with a lazy scrolling is
because now when we touch
the bottom observer again,
we can't create more elements anymore.
So this means that somehow
we need to reuse already
existing elements in the DOM
to render the new content.
So what do we do?
We select items that we want to recycle.
And this is the item 1 and item 2.
And as you can see, our viewport in
the area where we don't see the item 1 and
item 2, so for the user,
recycling these elements is not visible.
So we need to pick the new space where
we are going to move our elements,
this will be right after the item 4 and
item 3.
And then we recycling element one by one.
And once elements are moved
to the desired location,
now you can see that the top
observers kind of see on the top, so
we need to move this to
make it before the item 3,
while the bottom observer should
be right after the item 2.
So once the recycle finished,
we update the data, so
now instead of showing item 1 and
item 2, we show item 5 and item 6.
And as a next step,
we move our observers on the screen.
This is the high-level overview.
But to better understand the concept,
let's actually code this.
So make sure you check
out the following branch,
the virtualization-skeleton-start,
and open the file name virtual-list.
So, for most of the time,
we're gonna use just this file.
And let's overview the first two
exercises that we are going to complete.
So the first one we set up the skeleton.
This means that we are going to render
the basic template of our virtual list.
That will be the top observer container,
virtual list container, and
the bottom observer.
As a next step,
we're going to set up the intersection
observer to track the top observer
element and the bottom observer element.
And we'll provide an empty callback that
we're going to implement in the next
sections.
So let's get back to the code now.
And here,
if you want to follow along later,
there are instructions here
that you can use to implement
it on your own,
as well as the goal of the task.
But meanwhile, we'll transition
to the virtual-list.js file.
So let's overview the basic structure.
We already have some methods predefined.
The first one is the margin that
we're gonna use to space the cards.
And also, we have some function
that queries the top-observer and
the bottom-observer element.
And then we have the function that
queries the virtual list container,
and the main container that
contains all our containers.
Then we have the y function
that we're gonna utilize later.
So what this function does,
it takes the HTML element, and
if we provide it any value, it just sets
the attribute data-y to the element.
And I'll explain why we need
this in the next sections.
And if we don't provide the value,
it just tries to get this
attribute from the element.
And if the value is provided,
it returns the number.
And if it's not, then we just return null.
Next utility function is the translateY,
which just returns the CSS
transformation to move elements around.
So this is just a handy function
to return the CSS styling.
Then we have the skeleton class for
a virtual list.
So, the constructor of VirtualList
takes the root as a first parameter,
which is the element where we
want to render our virtual list.
And then we have some set of
properties that we are going to look at
the next section.
So then we have the toHTML file,
which basically represents the kind of
the render function,
if we are speaking in React world.
So it returns the HTML
template as a string that
we're planning to use for our app.
And there is also effect function that
allows us to register any synchronous
callbacks, for instance,
intersection observer or something else.
And the render function is very simple,
it takes the root of the element and
uses innerHTML and just renders
the HTML that we provided as a string.
And then we register any asynchronous
effects using this function.
So you can ignore the rest for now.